README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://gulpjs.com">
    <img height="257" width="114" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gulpjs/artwork/master/gulp-2x.png">
  </a>
</p>

# gulp-cli

[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Downloads][downloads-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][ci-image]][ci-url] [![Coveralls Status][coveralls-image]][coveralls-url]

Command Line Utility for Gulp

## Install

```bash
npm install --global gulp-cli
```

## Usage

```bash
> gulp [flags] <task> <task>...
```

## Custom Metadata

When listing tasks with the `gulp -T` command, gulp-cli displays some custom metadata as defined upon task functions. Currently supported properties:

* `task.description` - String of the description to display.

```js
function clean() { ... }
clean.description = 'Cleans up generated files.';
```

* `task.flags` - Object with key/value pairs being flag/description to display.

```js
function build() { ... }
build.flags = {
  '--prod': 'Builds in production mode.'
};
```

Example Usage:

```js
function build() { ... }
build.description = 'Build entire project.';
build.flags = {
  '--prod': 'Builds in production mode (minification, etc).'
};
// gulp 3.x
gulp.task('build', build);
// gulp 4.x
gulp.task(build);
```

## Tasks

The task(s) listed on the command line will be executed.
If more than one task is listed, Gulp will execute all of them
concurrently, that is, as if they had all been listed as dependencies of
a single task.

By default, Gulp does not serialize tasks listed on the command line. If you would like to execute tasks serially, you must specify the `--series` flag. e.g. `gulp clean build --series`

Just running `gulp` will execute the task `default`. If there is no
`default` task, gulp will error.

## Completion
> Thanks to the grunt team, specifically Tyler Kellen

To enable tasks auto-completion in shell you should add `eval "$(gulp --completion=shell)"` in your `.shellrc` file.

###### Bash:

Add `eval "$(gulp --completion=bash)"` to `~/.bashrc`.

###### Zsh:

Add `eval "$(gulp --completion=zsh)"` to `~/.zshrc`.

###### Powershell:

Add `Invoke-Expression ((gulp --completion=powershell) -join [System.Environment]::NewLine)` to `$PROFILE`.

###### Fish:

Add `gulp --completion=fish | source` to `~/.config/fish/config.fish`.

## Compilers

You can find a list of supported languages at https://github.com/gulpjs/interpret. If you would like to add support for a new language, send pull requests/open issues on that project.

## Environment

The CLI adds `process.env.INIT_CWD` which is the original cwd it was launched from.

## Configuration

Configuration is supported through the use of a `.gulp.*` file (e.g. `.gulp.json`, `.gulp.yml`). You can find a list of supported languages at https://github.com/gulpjs/interpret.

A configuration file from the current working directory (`cwd`) or above are selected before a configuration file from the home directory (`~`).

Supported configurations properties:

| Property           | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| description        | Top-level description of the project/gulpfile (Replaces "Tasks for ~/path/of/gulpfile.js") |
| gulpfile           | Set a default gulpfile |
| preload            | An array of modules to preload before running the gulpfile. Any relative paths will be resolved against the `--cwd` directory (if you don't want that behavior, use absolute paths) |
| nodeFlags          | An array of flags used to forcibly respawn the process upon startup. For example, if you always want your gulpfiles to run in node's harmony mode, you can set `--harmony` here |
| flags.continue     | Continue execution of tasks upon failure by default. |
| flags.compactTasks | Reduce the output of task dependency tree by default. |
| flags.tasksDepth   | Set default depth of task dependency tree. |
| flags.silent       | Silence logging by default |
| flags.series       | Run tasks given on the CLI in series (the default is parallel) |

## Flags

gulp has very few flags to know about. All other flags are for tasks to use if needed.

__Some flags only work with gulp 4 and will be ignored when invoked against gulp 3.__

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="25%">Flag</th>
      <th width="15%">Short Flag</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>--help</td>
      <td>-h</td>
      <td>Show this help.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--version</td>
      <td>-v</td>
      <td>Print the global and local gulp versions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--preload [path]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will preload a module before running the gulpfile. This is useful for transpilers but also has other applications.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--gulpfile [path]</td>
      <td>-f</td>
      <td>Manually set path of gulpfile. Useful if you have multiple gulpfiles. This will set the CWD to the gulpfile directory as well.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--cwd [path]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Manually set the CWD. The search for the gulpfile, as well as the relativity of all preloads (with the `--preload` flag) will be from here.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks</td>
      <td>-T</td>
      <td>Print the task dependency tree for the loaded gulpfile.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks-simple</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Print a plaintext list of tasks for the loaded gulpfile.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks-json [path]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Print the task dependency tree, in JSON format, for the loaded gulpfile. The [path] argument is optional, and if given writes the JSON to the path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks-depth [number]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Specify the depth of the task dependency tree to print. This flag can be used with --tasks or --tasks-json. (This flag was named --depth before but is deprecated.)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--compact-tasks</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Reduce the output of task dependency tree by printing only top tasks and their child tasks. This flag can be used with --tasks or --tasks-json.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--sort-tasks</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will sort top tasks of task dependency tree. This flag can be used with --tasks.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--color</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will force gulp and gulp plugins to display colors, even when no color support is detected.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--no-color</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will force gulp and gulp plugins to not display colors, even when color support is detected.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--silent</td>
      <td>-S</td>
      <td>Suppress all gulp logging.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--continue</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Continue execution of tasks upon failure.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--series</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Run tasks given on the CLI in series (the default is parallel).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--log-level</td>
      <td>-L</td>
      <td>Set the loglevel. -L for least verbose and -LLLL for most verbose. -LLL is default.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## License

MIT


<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[downloads-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/gulp-cli.svg?style=flat-square
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-cli
[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gulp-cli.svg?style=flat-square

[ci-url]: https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-cli/actions?query=workflow:dev
[ci-image]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gulpjs/gulp-cli/dev.yml?branch=master&style=flat-square

[coveralls-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/gulpjs/gulp-cli
[coveralls-image]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/gulpjs/gulp-cli.svg?style=flat-square
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Commit message:

chore!: Only allow js variants for `.gulp` config files (#261)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://gulpjs.com">
    <img height="257" width="114" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gulpjs/artwork/master/gulp-2x.png">
  </a>
</p>

# gulp-cli

[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url] [![Downloads][downloads-image]][npm-url] [![Build Status][ci-image]][ci-url] [![Coveralls Status][coveralls-image]][coveralls-url]

Command Line Utility for Gulp

## Install

```bash
npm install --global gulp-cli
```

## Usage

```bash
> gulp [flags] <task> <task>...
```

## Custom Metadata

When listing tasks with the `gulp -T` command, gulp-cli displays some custom metadata as defined upon task functions. Currently supported properties:

* `task.description` - String of the description to display.

```js
function clean() { ... }
clean.description = 'Cleans up generated files.';
```

* `task.flags` - Object with key/value pairs being flag/description to display.

```js
function build() { ... }
build.flags = {
  '--prod': 'Builds in production mode.'
};
```

Example Usage:

```js
function build() { ... }
build.description = 'Build entire project.';
build.flags = {
  '--prod': 'Builds in production mode (minification, etc).'
};
// gulp 3.x
gulp.task('build', build);
// gulp 4.x
gulp.task(build);
```

## Tasks

The task(s) listed on the command line will be executed.
If more than one task is listed, Gulp will execute all of them
concurrently, that is, as if they had all been listed as dependencies of
a single task.

By default, Gulp does not serialize tasks listed on the command line. If you would like to execute tasks serially, you must specify the `--series` flag. e.g. `gulp clean build --series`

Just running `gulp` will execute the task `default`. If there is no
`default` task, gulp will error.

## Completion
> Thanks to the grunt team, specifically Tyler Kellen

To enable tasks auto-completion in shell you should add `eval "$(gulp --completion=shell)"` in your `.shellrc` file.

###### Bash:

Add `eval "$(gulp --completion=bash)"` to `~/.bashrc`.

###### Zsh:

Add `eval "$(gulp --completion=zsh)"` to `~/.zshrc`.

###### Powershell:

Add `Invoke-Expression ((gulp --completion=powershell) -join [System.Environment]::NewLine)` to `$PROFILE`.

###### Fish:

Add `gulp --completion=fish | source` to `~/.config/fish/config.fish`.

## Compilers

You can find a list of supported JavaScript variant languages in [Interpret][interpret-js-variants]. If you would like to add support for a new language, send pull requests/open issues on that project.

## Environment

The CLI adds `process.env.INIT_CWD` which is the original cwd it was launched from.

## Configuration

Configuration is supported through the use of a `.gulp.*` file (e.g. `.gulp.js`, `.gulp.ts`). You can find a list of supported JavaScript variant languages in [Interpret][interpret-js-variants].

A configuration file from the current working directory (`cwd`) or above are selected before a configuration file from the home directory (`~`).

Supported configurations properties:

| Property           | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| description        | Top-level description of the project/gulpfile (Replaces "Tasks for ~/path/of/gulpfile.js") |
| gulpfile           | Set a default gulpfile |
| preload            | An array of modules to preload before running the gulpfile. Any relative paths will be resolved against the `--cwd` directory (if you don't want that behavior, use absolute paths) |
| nodeFlags          | An array of flags used to forcibly respawn the process upon startup. For example, if you always want your gulpfiles to run in node's harmony mode, you can set `--harmony` here |
| flags.continue     | Continue execution of tasks upon failure by default. |
| flags.compactTasks | Reduce the output of task dependency tree by default. |
| flags.tasksDepth   | Set default depth of task dependency tree. |
| flags.silent       | Silence logging by default |
| flags.series       | Run tasks given on the CLI in series (the default is parallel) |

## Flags

gulp has very few flags to know about. All other flags are for tasks to use if needed.

__Some flags only work with gulp 4 and will be ignored when invoked against gulp 3.__

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th width="25%">Flag</th>
      <th width="15%">Short Flag</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>--help</td>
      <td>-h</td>
      <td>Show this help.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--version</td>
      <td>-v</td>
      <td>Print the global and local gulp versions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--preload [path]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will preload a module before running the gulpfile. This is useful for transpilers but also has other applications.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--gulpfile [path]</td>
      <td>-f</td>
      <td>Manually set path of gulpfile. Useful if you have multiple gulpfiles. This will set the CWD to the gulpfile directory as well.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--cwd [path]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Manually set the CWD. The search for the gulpfile, as well as the relativity of all preloads (with the `--preload` flag) will be from here.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks</td>
      <td>-T</td>
      <td>Print the task dependency tree for the loaded gulpfile.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks-simple</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Print a plaintext list of tasks for the loaded gulpfile.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks-json [path]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Print the task dependency tree, in JSON format, for the loaded gulpfile. The [path] argument is optional, and if given writes the JSON to the path.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--tasks-depth [number]</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Specify the depth of the task dependency tree to print. This flag can be used with --tasks or --tasks-json. (This flag was named --depth before but is deprecated.)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--compact-tasks</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Reduce the output of task dependency tree by printing only top tasks and their child tasks. This flag can be used with --tasks or --tasks-json.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--sort-tasks</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will sort top tasks of task dependency tree. This flag can be used with --tasks.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--color</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will force gulp and gulp plugins to display colors, even when no color support is detected.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--no-color</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Will force gulp and gulp plugins to not display colors, even when color support is detected.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--silent</td>
      <td>-S</td>
      <td>Suppress all gulp logging.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--continue</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Continue execution of tasks upon failure.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--series</td>
      <td></td>
      <td>Run tasks given on the CLI in series (the default is parallel).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>--log-level</td>
      <td>-L</td>
      <td>Set the loglevel. -L for least verbose and -LLLL for most verbose. -LLL is default.</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## License

MIT

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[interpret-js-variants]: https://github.com/gulpjs/interpret#jsvariants
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[downloads-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/gulp-cli.svg?style=flat-square
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-cli
[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gulp-cli.svg?style=flat-square

[ci-url]: https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-cli/actions?query=workflow:dev
[ci-image]: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/gulpjs/gulp-cli/dev.yml?branch=master&style=flat-square

[coveralls-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/gulpjs/gulp-cli
[coveralls-image]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/gulpjs/gulp-cli.svg?style=flat-square
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
